        The High-Resolution Sky Files
            Jeg 10/11/09

There are three large files in this package, 

sumireBLUEskyHR.dat
sumireREDskyHR.dat
sumireIRskyHR.dat

which give the sky brightness as a function of wavelength in nanoMaggies
per square arcsecond.  (read the file sensitivityFiles.txt.  One
nanoMaggie is 3.631 microJanskys, 3.631e-29 erg/sec/cm^2/Hz, the flux
density of a source with AB=22.50).  The resolution in all these tables
is 0.2 Angstrom.  They were constructed from a variety of sources,
including the Gemini models longward of 9000A, the ESO high resolution
data files shortward of 10500.  Neither of these sources is without
problems.  The Gemini files used an atmospheric model, which appears to
be quite good for the emission line intensity, but they added in
zodiacal light as the continuum, and got the intensity wrong (too high)
by a factor of 10.  I fixed this crudely, but a better job needs to be
done.  The ESO data are very noisy in the blue and clearly contain a LOT
of moonlight, which I have also tried to subtract out, but a better job
needs to be done.  I tested my corrections by comparing with broad-band
sky brightness measures, and the tables (or, rather, the master table
from which they are extracted) correspond to (in magnitudes per sq.
arcsecond) 

    AB      Standard
            Vega
U   23.0    22.2
B   22.3    22.5
V   21.6    21.6
Rc  21.0    20.8
Ic  20.2    19.8
J   16.5    15.7
H   14.7    13.4

These agree well with the solar-cycle averaged values from many sources.
The range is approximately these values +/-0.4 magnitude over the 
solar cycle.

So the first column is the wavelength in Angstrom units, the second the
areal flux density in nM per sq arcsecond at full resolution with no
scattering from the grating. 

In the third column I have added the Lorenzian wings of the OH lines,
computed by the prescription in Ellis and Bland-Hawthorn (2009)
(Astro-ph 0801.3870) from Woods et al, (1994) Applied Optics 33, 4273. 
One of the parameters which enters (inversely) in the strength of the
wings is the effective number of lines in the grating, which is always
less than the total real number and is smaller the lower the quality of
the grating.  Modern VPH gratings have of order a third of the total
number for this parameter, and that is what I have assumed here.  The
third column, fl, is the result of applying this scattering convolution. 
Note that the data shortward of 9000A is real data taken with a real
spectrograph, so in some sense the scattering is already there; the ESO
spectrograph, however, is of very high resolving power, and *probably*
has scattering which can be neglected in comparison to what we are
introducing.  (The continuum, however, in those data in the
long-wavelength region, even after subtracting the moon, are a factor of
about two higher than in the model Gemini data; this needs
investigating. 

Finally, one has to put in the finite resolution of the Sumire
spectrograph; this is in the fourth column flg, which is the result of
convolving fl with a gaussian of the proper FWHM for the spectrograph. 
It is this column which is integrated over the pixels which appears in
the sensitivity files.  The fifth and sixth columns just convert the
flux densities in the fl and flg files to AB magnitudes per square
arcsecond.  
